---
id: s3
title: AWS S3
---

This module allows the `Security Engine` to acquire logs from a S3 bucket.

It supports reading plain text file and gzip file (detection is performed based on the file extension).

## Configuration example

To monitor a S3 bucket detecting new objects from a SQS queue:
```yaml
source: s3
polling_method: sqs
sqs_name: test-sqs-s3-acquis
labels:
  type: foo
```

To monitor a S3 bucket detecting new objects by listing the bucket content:
```yaml
source: s3
polling_method: list
bucket_name: my_bucket
polling_interval: 30
labels:
  type: foo
```

:::warning
The `list` polling method is mostly intended for testing purposes, and its usage is not recommended in production.
It won't work well with moderately big buckets (tens of thousands of files), as the listing operation is slow.
:::

:::warning
When using the `sqs` polling method, make sure the Security Engine is the only reader of the queue.
If other processes read from the queue, then the Security Engine will miss some events.
:::

Look at the `configuration parameters` to view all supported options.

## Parameters


### `polling_method`

How to detect new files in a bucket. Must be one of `sqs` or `list`.
`sqs` is the recommended mode.

### `polling_interval`

How often in seconds the Security Engine will check for new objects in a bucket when using the `list` polling method.
Defaults to 60.

### `sqs_name`

Name of the SQS queue to poll.
Required when `polling_method` is `sqs`.

### `sqs_format`

Format of the body inside the SQS messages.
Can be `eventbridge` or `s3notification`.

If not set, the Security Engine will automatically select the format based on the first valid event received from the queue.

### `bucket_name`

Name of the bucket to poll.
Required when `polling_method` is `list`.


### `prefix`

Only read objects matching this prefix when `polling_method` is `list`.
Optional, ignored when `polling_method` is `sqs`.

### `aws_profile`

The AWS profile to use, relies on your `~/.aws/config/`.

Optional, the data source will automatically use the standard AWS env vars if present.

### `aws_region`

The AWS region.

Optional, the data source will automatically use the standard AWS env vars if present.

## `aws_endpoint`

Endpoint for AWS API.
Optional, the data source will automatically use the standard AWS env vars if present.

Can be used to point the Security Engine to a S3-compatible object storage.

### `source`

Must be `s3`

## DSN and command-line

This module supports acquisition directly from the command line, to read files in one shot.

A single s3 URI is accepted with the `-dsn` parameter, but you don't have to specify a specific object.

If no object is specified (either just a bucket, or a bucket and a prefix), the Security Engine will read all files matching the prefix.

If you don't specify an object, the path *must* end with `/`.

```bash
crowdsec -type syslog -dsn s3://my_bucket/
```

```bash
crowdsec -type syslog -dsn s3://my_bucket/my_prefix/
```

```bash
crowdsec -type syslog -dsn s3://my_bucket/my_prefix/foo.log
```

You can specify the `log_level` parameter to change the log level for the acquisition:

```bash
crowdsec -type syslog -dsn s3://my_bucket/my_prefix/foo.log?log_level=debug
```

AWS SDK behaviour can be configured with the standard AWS environment variables.